For this demonstration, I have a vertical
filament light bulb connected to a variable power supply.
And the first thing, I have it nice and bright.
And say, you see this, these students,
you see this as white, but what is it really?
And through the diffraction grating,
they can see the spectra on either side,
and say, it's not white, it's red, green, yellow
on all the colors there.
So that there's no such thing as white.
It's just what you perceive.
And then I say, what's causing
these electromagnetic waves are things that are vibrating.
If you have a charge, that's vibrating.
The more often it vibrates,
the higher frequency creates an electromagnetic wave.
If it's vibrating less often, that's a longer wavelength,
a lower frequency.
And that vibrating is related to temperature.
So if it's hot like this, this thing is giving off light
because it's hot.
So if you turn the temperature down,
and you're looking through the diffraction grading,
right around here, I can still see the red and the green,
but the blue and the violet is pretty much gone.
So it's not hot enough
to give off those higher frequencies.
And then you can make it even colder.
And now it's giving off pretty much orangey
or just red light.
And then I say, well, is it giving off light now?
And the answer is yes.
It's just that it's not visible light that we can perceive.
It's infrared light.
How do we see things we can't see?
So if we have a long wavelength like infrared light,
can we detect that?
And the answer is yes, if you have a cell phone.
And here I have just a remote
and if I'm just push a button, you can see it flashing.
Can you see it flashing?
I hope it's flashing.
You can't see it here, but you can see it here.
So this camera detects infrared light.
Now this is a Android phone.
Apple phones don't do it nearly as well or if at all.
But yeah, so you can see infrared light.
And to detect ultraviolet light,
we would have some either glow in the dark material
or tonic water.
You shine ultraviolet light through it,
and you can see a nice pinky glow.
The quinine, is what I understand, is reacting
with the ultraviolet light here.
And here is just the tap water.
I don't see, I see it hitting the straw there,
but I don't see the beam in the water here
as much as I do here.
Oh, or another example for ultraviolet light is anything
that is fluorescent like this.
You can see it's reacting to the light.
And I have students take out their highlighters
and look at the highlighters.
There are certain fluorescent yellow markers that,
in the ultraviolet light, it just pops.
And that's why you want that for your highlighting.
'Cause it actually emits light.
(upbeat music)